{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Geneva;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc3\levelnfcn3\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Your program. For this assignment you are to write one program that has three functions in addition to main(). Yes, it is possible to write this program without using functions other than main( ), but the point of this assignment is to get practice writing functions. You will get only minimal credit for this assignment if you don't create these three functions. The functions you need to write are\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	A.	}Function
\b \'a0length(x)\'a0
\b0 returns the number of digits in integer x. There are several ways to do this. The easiest way is to convert x to a string and then return its length. For example, len( str(3456) ) is 4. Another way uses a loop: count the number of times the number can be divided by 10 before it becomes 0. For example 3456/10 is 345; 345/10 is 34; 34/10 is 3; 3/10 is 0. We had to divide 3456 by 10 4 times to get to 0, so its length is 4. Using either way, write a function that takes an integer argument and returns its length.\uc0\u8232 \
{\listtext	B.	}Function
\b \'a0power(a, b)
\b0 \'a0returns\'a0
\b a
\b0 \'a0to the
\b \'a0b
\b0 th power, which is variable
\b \'a0a
\b0 \'a0multiplied by itself variable\'a0
\b b
\b0 \'a0times. So power(2, 3) is 2*2*2, or 8, and power(3, 4) is 3*3*3*3, or 81. To compute this have a variable\'a0
\b total\'a0
\b0 that starts at 1, and a for-loop that multiplies
\b \'a0total
\b0 \'a0times\'a0
\b a
\b0 \'a0for
\b \'a0b
\b0 \'a0times. A cheesy way to do this function is to return\'a0
\b a**b
\b0 ; but\'a0
\b I want you to compute this with a loop
\b0 \'a0instead.\uc0\u8232 \
{\listtext	C.	}You have probably seen the factorial function in math classes. The factorial of number
\b \'a0n
\b0 , which we write as\'a0
\b n!
\b0 , is the product of all numbers between 1 and\'a0
\b n
\b0 . So 2! is 1*2 or 2, 3! is 1*2*3 or 6, 5! is 1*2*3*4*5, or 120, 6! is 720 and 7! is 5040. Write a function\'a0
\b factorial(n)
\b0 \'a0that takes argument\'a0
\b n
\b0 \'a0and returns the factorial of\'a0
\b n
\b0 . You can do this in a loop that runs through the numbers 2 to
\b \'a0n
\b0 \'a0and multiplies a product variable times each of these numbers. Remember to return the final result.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 In main() you should have an input loop that over and over asks the user for a number. The loop ends when the user enters 0. For any number greater than 0 you should print both power(number, number) and factorial(number). These will likely be very large numbers, so with each you should also print the number of digits.\'a0\uc0\u8232 \u8232 Here is a typical run of your program:\u8232 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 Enter a number, or 0 to exit: 3\u8232 The factorial of 3 is 6\u8232 This has 1 digit.\u8232 power(3, 3) is 27\u8232 This has 2 digits.
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 Enter a number, or 0 to exit: 5\uc0\u8232 The factorial of 5 is 120\u8232 This has 3 digits.\u8232 power(5, 5) is 3125\u8232 This has 4 digits.
\f0 \

\f1 Enter a number, or 0 to exit: 9\uc0\u8232 The factorial of 9 is 362880\u8232 This has 6 digits.\u8232 power(9, 9) is 387420489\u8232 This has 9 digits.
\f0 \

\f1 Enter a number, or 0 to exit: 0\uc0\u8232 goodbye!\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 
\f0 This is due by midnight at the end of Monday, October 7.\
Also, please put your name in a comment at the top of the program. Sometimes when we grade the files names get separated from the program; if your name is in a comment I'll be able to verify whose code the file represents. In addition, when you hand in this assignment on Blackboard please give me a statement that says who you worked with. I don't mind you working with people, but I would like to know who is working with you.}